great to see you all thanks so much for
joining us today I'm Alex partner at
lighted been at Sals Forest Ventures
prior to this for about years where I
actually worked very closely with Julie
been excited to be at lights speed where
I'm helping us double down on SAS we're
going to talk about today is a new
framework that lights speed has
developed around how to think about this
new era of SAS 4.0 and what the
opportunities are for startups how to
think about incumbents and then really
excited to have AB who's the founder and
CEO of typface one of our portfolio
companies he's perfect person to have
this conversation because he just
started type face last year and his
background will speak for itself but
you'll see why it'll be a very rich
conversation so without further Ado you
probably know light speed but for those
that don't we've been investing in
generational companies for about 20
years now our roots are actually an
early stage Enterprise investing today
we also do consumer Healthcare and
fintech but the r bread and butter of
the firm has always been Enterprise
investing and that's why this community
is so important to us at the fr
as sonx mentioned we've been investing
in Enterprise software for more than 20
years now and I think what's been
remarkable to us is really that over
those 20 years enterprise software has
been incredibly resilient and continues
to be so today so why is that think
about it JP Moren today has more
developers than
Salesforce L'A the beuty company has
over a thousand employees with data and
the job title and John Deere the Apper
manufacturing company has over 4,000
developers as well so every single
business strives to be a technology
first company today and enterprise
software really went from just being
part of the at budget touching the
entire organization sales customer
assess operations and HR and that's why
we're so excited about it GL Cloud
applications a huge important part of
this whole sort of growth is still
growing super super fast today over the
last year alone Cloud Communications
public Cloud as part of the spent has
Tripp it in one year that's incredible
and that's why Alice and I spent so much
time in vertic thinking about disruption
of not as digitized Industries like
supply chain for instance and work
through automation as well but the real
elephant in the room is obviously
generative Ai and the impact of that
shift on the SAS Community as well we
see three buckets and that's at the risk
of oversimplifying a little bit but
really excited about a the model layer
and we do think there's going to be more
than one Foundation model here
secondly the enablement stack
infrastructure so that actually
Enterprises are able to adopt these to
Technologies safely and of efficiently
and then lastly where again we spend a
lot of our time the application layer
and verze it's going to be a big part of
that but the point that I really want to
drive home here and that's I think
really important is the real opportunity
of gener generation VII is really
enabling industries that so far has been
very slow toop software and have been
very service heavy think about
everything we're seeing right now in
legal attack accounting and Heth that's
where we see the real shift towards a
new era in SAS that is that talk but
part of our view by the way is that
there is an incredible moment of
opportunity right now with everything
happening Julie laid out the broad
Trends behind this but so much of what's
the history books will say about this
era is being written right now and so
we've taken a step back at the firm and
try to think about how to piece together
where we are and a big part of that is
looking at this at a historical basis so
taking a step back the first era of
cloud was really back in '99 when
companies like Salesforce where both
Julie and I used to work pioneered this
whole shift in cloud computing of course
CRM was not a new category there were
existing databases that did this they
just did it on the cloud they Sorry on
premise and so the real Innovation was
taking that traditional database and
pushing it up in the cloud so we think
of that as the 1.0 era where SAS was
really about the system of
record you move one over in the SAS 2.0
era that was really the system of
Engagement and what we saw there was all
of a sudden it wasn't just recording and
storing the data in a database it was
how do you activate that data how do you
take advantage of it how do systems
start talking to each other actual
applications connecting and so companies
like slack and twio on the communication
side companies like moft and the API
economy and just the whole plethora of
that next generation software companies
coming on stage then maybe about seven
eight years ago we had the early Innings
of AI the first sort of automation of
hey how can we drive more intelligence
and in our view that was the real
precursor to gen movement that system of
intelligence was really focused on how
to drive a bit more Automation in the
core application a great example of that
are companies like moveworks on the
customer service it support side and
then gong on the sort of call recording
and engagement side on top of
Salesforce and now finally we're in this
fourth era which is really exciting and
we're calling that the era of cognition
where it's not just about actual
automating a small part of the task it's
really about creating an entire new
workflow where work gets done and to us
we still don't know who the category
winners are going to be you can see it's
a big right empty box on the right and
hopefully some of you here will go fill
that obviously it's also important to
talk about the implications for software
companies as we shift into this for the
fourth generation of STS and I'm talking
about both large Enterprises as well as
young small startups the first part is
creativity is being completely
democratized what does that mean we
completely redefine what it means to
create in the first place what is
creativity actually it breaks down the
entire barriers of creating and that's
what we're so excited about it that
means it touches music film art but it
also means how we or completely changes
how we F products and how we build user
flows and I think there's a lot of
creative potential that is being
Unleashed here secondly we've seen a
sort of an evolution from being data
driven in our recommendations and next
best action to a more sensing approach
as we like to call it what we mean by
that is instead of suggesting the next
best videos to watch based on your
preferences why don't we start with
actually creating that video that
matches your preferences the best from
scratch and then lastly this is truly
the era of personalization opposite
means for Founders building that you
really have to the user expectations are
higher than ever you really have to
match a huge level of personalization
for every single user but what excites
me is the opportunity to he Education
Health Care also the content system it
could be that finally now we're getting
close to a point where person health
hster is becoming much more available to
a much larger prodct of your Society
with L of this opportunity obviously
also comes a huge responsibility this is
an system that is still moving
incredibly fast we're having a lack of
ownership to some extent and some even
don't really understand what's happening
under the whole technology wise and so I
think as company leaders as organization
leaders we really ask to ask ourselves
what are the implications of such
personal data being used and shared and
that in this large amounts for our
employees for our organizations for
customers and users and I think we see
actually a big sta for technology te
ology infrastructure also emerging
around that topic but something that we
love to spend a lot of time with is as
Alex already mentioned that we're also
going to discuss and our panel aist is
how the dynamic between incomings and
startups has shifted by the ad of gener
what we mean here is that so far been
always enough to be the EDI fast moving
in a new space and the first one with a
small company to go after it that has
shifted now today the ability to access
large amount proprietary data and has
huge distribution power have become so
much more unfortunate and so shortly
we'll discuss a little bit how that
changes the playing arena for startups
and Inc comment so one of the benefits
as Venture investors that we have is we
get to meet a lot of companies and
actually the flip side is if you're a
Founder building one of the hardest
things is you're within your four walls
really focusing on building your
business and so with the last the
benefit of the last year and having seen
a lot of companies both in our portfolio
and companies that we've gotten a chance
to meet we've taken a step back and
thought what are the big Dimensions that
when we think about backing companies
gets us excited in this sort of New Era
of cognition as we're calling it and
there's five areas that we've identified
and we're going to go through each of
these so the first one is data and is it
propietary data or is it data that's
publicly available our thesis is that
it's a lot more valuable if you can take
advantage of data that's proprietary and
private great example of this would be
if you're building in inventory
optimization company what's more
relevant is it just the weather patterns
in terms of predicting when someone
might buy a t-shirt or ski gear or is it
actually being able to integrate into
the actual transaction history of the
merchant seeing all their historical
patterns and actually driving insight
for them that way and so that's what we
mean by private data here not just
what's available to other companies as
well I think the simple way to think
about this is if you have access to it
in the public domain incumbents large
technology companies also do and so
really trying to think about where are
the sort of unique data sets that you
can develop with your customers to drive
more that insight and automation that's
number one number two is frequency of
interaction the beauty about software is
that it really Powers workflow but not
all workflows are created the same and
our hypothesis here is that frequency is
going to matter a lot there are some
tasks that happen once a month once a
quarter maybe even once a year there's
other tasks that happen literally on a
daily basis Rel least weekly and our
excitement in terms of backing the next
generation of software companies are
those that are really focused on that
frequency of interaction because we
think it can drive a lot more engagement
and a lot more value for customers the
third is what's the actual product that
you're building the comparison of
starting a company today in Building
Products versus 20 years ago 20 years
ago you had to raise 20 million just to
get an email server up and running it's
incredible how much now is available and
that's true of the Gen movement as well
we've all played around I'm sure with
Chad GPT and open Ai and just the
amazing technology that's our fingertips
as consumers of this but product gravity
matters a lot and just having a thin
wrapper around an existing workflow we
don't think that's going to drive a
sustaining Advantage it's a lot more
about the Deep Integrations that are
required into traditional systems it's
more about the workflows you can drive
it's the community you can build around
that product so in our view the gravity
of what the sort of depth and gravity of
that product matters a lot and so if you
think about depth try to explore not
just the initial use case but where you
go from there and that's one of the big
areas that we've been excited about in
the companies we've backed the fourth
this is an amazing opportunity to drive
10x Improvement in terms of what
actually happens from a use case product
collaboration perspective I think today
decision makers in software and it
they're inundated with tools companies
there's more than an average company
about 4,000 SAS applications and so ask
yourself how can we drive a 10x
Improvement whether it's through the
products and actual experience whether
it's through the business model whether
it's through the community you can drive
this is going to be a title shift I
think in terms of what can actually be
built and those companies that drive
that sort of significant Improvement are
going to be the winners and then last
and not least this ties a little bit to
the SAS 3.0 versus 4.0 what is it that
you're automating if what you're
automating is a sort of nice to have for
a customer sort more in that low-level
intelligence where you yes it could help
their business but it's not going to
move the needle that's going to be a
very different outcome for the business
and for you than if you're automating
what's a more what we call high level
automation that drives meaningful r y
and so as you think about building in
this era really go back to customers and
what's in it for them why should they
pay attention to this so that's our
framework it's clearly a super exciting
time to be building in software we've
been investing as a firm for over 20
years I've been investing in soft for
about 15 and I have never been more
excited what's to come but obviously
it's also a challenging moment because
there's so much Innovation happening
quickly incumbents are taking advantage
of that as well and so as startups
looking for opportunity this is a really
unique moment with that let's actually
dive into a builder that today is at the
Forefront of this is at the in the
trenches of building with Gen and is
actually disrupting himself Abby I'd
love it if you can please join us on
stage great to be here thanks for having
me here and really good framing I think
you covered a lot of the themes that
certainly we are experiencing as
building the business business I think
for me it's actually lot of times when
you have these kind of discussions
sometimes the expectation is to answer
with oh there was a well plan and was
very clear from the beginning actually
the reality is very much a lot of
coincidental moves I happen to always
love software was selftaught in
programming ended up in the first job
where there was a project that didn't
even have a name and that became Java
which was a programming language and I
didn't even know I was working on
something and so a lot of it is a series
of kind of coincidental moves but
probably the one common theme across all
of them is I've always gotten more
excitement and energy working on what I
call flag planter type of activities
rather than Road Builder where there is
no well- defined path there is no well-
defined market and product and you get
to go charge some new territory so
that's probably the one common theme
doesn't always work out but that's
probably the fun part of
it yeah I think by the way that story is
very common this sort of like accidental
some of the best Founders Le backs have
that sort of they they go into domain
and it to them it's obvious but to the
rest of the world it isn't because of
that path where did the idea for type
face maybe you can show a little bit
about your vision around the product and
the category and how you thought about
what you wanted to build there yeah I
mean it's interesting sitting here today
at saster when Gen is all the buzz and
everything is centered around J um
around November of 2021 I was still at
adob CTO leading lot of the products we
were already investing quite a bit on AI
but just not the Gen AI form uh and then
I happen to get a early view into some
of the Transformer based kind of
diffusion models gpt1 and two and they
were not quite there but if you could
extrapolate you could see that the world
of software is going to fundamentally
change because in some ways the last
decade with the cloud and you talked
about the SAS 10230 waves the world of
data has gone through complete
transformation if you look at all the
unstructured data Big Data companies
like snowflake data brakes amazing
companies have been built on the side of
data and then at Adobe we always sat at
the intersection of creativity and kind
of Science and what was clear to me that
the world of content in the Enterprise
is just completely stuck in the Dark
Ages because there wasn't a 10x uh
breakthrough as you were talking about
and GPT even in an early form was very
clear that if this continues the
hardware acceleration software
acceleration is going to get to a place
where entire world's content
architecture for companies is going to
go through massive infliction point and
so for us at typ face really the Genesis
was the same way when original printing
press happened there was only one font
and until type faces were invented you
couldn't really personalize and tell
your story and so our thesis was if this
underlying GPD and Foundation models are
the AI equivalent of printing press you
need a personalization layer for every
company every person to tell their story
in their own voice in their own brand
and so we said let's go build that
software is that where typ face comes
from that is the name actually that it's
not a story I usually yeah but that is
the reason why it's called type face in
some ways the rate at which the industry
is moving I have been fortunate enough
to be part of cloud transition at adob
or mobile this one is at least 10x
faster in its way it's moving we
actually officially started I started a
company May of last year so roughly 15
months ago which in some ways is super
short we are still obviously super early
but I remember chat GPD stable diffusion
none of the things that happened and
when we started the company
and we started talking to customers or
some early investors like light feed uh
one of the questions was but what is the
platform you're going to use because
none exists and there is no platform
that you can build a company on to light
speed's credit Ravi who is founder Co
there suddenly saw the Arc of where it
could land and literally when light
speed and I started the journey together
there was a thesis there was a
conviction but chat GPD had not happened
and so we thought it's going to take 3
to 5 years and yet here we are within a
year Everything Has
Changed that's amazing I am curious a
lot of Founders I think looking at the
space that you're building would have
thought incumbents are just going to go
and do this and you've now with your
career I've been on both sides and
you've seen plenty of startups who've
been in really the iconic companies of
Technology how do you think about spaces
that are interesting for startups to go
and explore and where do incumbents
actually have the advantage as you maybe
in your own Journey with type phase but
even more broadly for the audience today
because there are obviously distinct
advantages and disadvantages for us it
really I I would probably start with
what's common across incom and startups
at least for me that over the years I've
seen is whenever there is a disruptive
shift you have at least for me you have
to start with a deep product thesis can
you build something that is a deep
technology and product mode I think you
called it the thick or heavy application
layer actually that's very similar
across both these companies if you look
at companies that are was fortunate like
Adobe or or Microsoft there aren't many
companies which have products that are
20 30 40 years later are still
considered gold standard like Photoshop
and the reason they are is they have a
deep technology mode combined with a
exceptional product user fit where the
users love the product so first I would
say that's actually something we think a
lot about at type face which is what is
that product truth and what is that
product mode because no other there can
be a lot of hype there can be a lot of
capital there can be all kinds of PR but
if you don't have that product truth
that I think is true across both of
these but then where it starts diverging
one of the things I saw consistently at
big companies and I think companies like
Adobe are still better at transforming
themselves over the years but when you
have existing businesses and existing
customer base your ability to disrupt
your own business takes a significant
amount of commitment and discipline and
not every incumbent can do that and even
those that can do it they cannot move as
fast enough or adapt fast enough so one
of the advantages if you have a core
product truth then your ability to adapt
and fundamentally make offerings in the
market that the income will never make
because their economic incentives are
just misaligned in the short run I think
is one of the fundamental things at
Microsoft I worked on Azure version one
and when I was there one of the
challenges was could we or should we
offer Linux based VMS when you have a
$60 billion Windows business and even
though we knew technologically that was
necessary it's it's not easy to when
you're a public company and so I would
say that economic incentives incumbents
can leverage that to their advantage
when incumbents actually have it
misaligned in the market so that's kind
one of them but I think also speed of
change I I fundamentally think and this
is what keeps me up at night is our only
weapon at type face is the rate at which
we can change with the market has to be
10x faster than the rate at which
incomeand can change because they have
10x if not 100x more Capital more re
more customers but their ability to
change is the one thing we can do faster
very interesting I don't know if you
both agree with this by the way but I
found that whenever folks that haven't
worked at a big company talking about a
big company they think of it as a
monolith they're like oh a Salesforce
why does Salesforce do or not do this or
why does Adobe do or not do this and
actually in the case of Salesforce there
was really six or seven different
business units yeah and there each of
them by the way would be like one of the
largest public SAS companies on their
own as a result of that it's not there's
of course there an overarching strategy
but there's a lot of sort of resource
allocation that has to happen within
those departments domains and to your
point it's like finding that thing that
you can go fast at faster than anyone
else with that focus it it might be
something interesting to the big company
but it's not something that today
they're
prioritizing and the people who have
that DNA there are people like that in
those companies I was one of them for
many years in big companies but those
people typically have to fight the
internal kind of status school to get
these new products out and they do and
they try and they succeed a lot of times
so I do think you're right it's not a
monolith kind of one giant fabric I
think when we talked about the session
and prepared a little bit you mentioned
you talked about the term data
uniqueness and how important that is
also when you're building a business in
this ecosystem how should we think about
that first as an incumbent you might
have more access but then also as a
startup how do I get there right when I
have this closed out problem a little
bit yeah this is first of all that's a
fascinating question and I know you
talked about the public versus private
data sets and this I would say even for
us at Ty phase we are through that
Learning Journey ourselves so I don't
think the Final Chapter on this is
written yet but the one thing that is
very different about gen um not only is
the technology different and it's
fundamentally about algorithms not just
procedural code is for the first time
software is not just about codifying
your intellectual property through bunch
of Automation and algorithms but it's
actually about extracting unique
patterns through data sets or deep
domain specialized kind of
verticalization and that's actually one
of the hardest things for incumbent
because at least most incumbents they
have lot of that data they have lot of
those assets through their customers but
they didn't build their businesses with
that architectural pattern but they are
sitting on that gold mine now if you're
a startup your problem is you don't
actually have access to that data and so
the best strategy at least in my mind is
one of two things can you in fact fact
partner with these incumbents and I know
we'll talk about that a little bit
because they are sitting on that gold
mine but may not always have ways to
extract value out of that at least right
away but then there are a lot of end
customers who actually are looking at
geni like we are working with one of the
largest consumer electronics Goods
companies they operate in 90 countries
they sell TVs refrigerators washing
machines all appliances and they have
tremendous amount of data they just
don't know how to connect that data to
the world of generative AR and they have
very nervous about handing over those
Crown jeels to openai or Microsoft or
Google because they worried that their
Crown jeels then suddenly will be in the
hands of these incumbents so they are
actually extremely excited about working
with startups because they want to push
the limits of their assets by working
with companies that are not as big a
threat as incumbants are for them that's
fascinating so it's almost like the fact
that you're small new he's an advantage
in that case Advantage wow how didn't
just set yourself up though to be able
to get access to the data let's say from
security perspective and especially if
you're just super young all the reir L
corpers have to work with you it's it's
a lot yeah it is and there are days I
wish I had a simpler answer to that
question but one of the things I will
say and maybe this is a little bit From
The Trenches as exciting as gen is and
as exciting as the pronouncement at
saster every session maybe that this is
going to change the world overnight I
actually think it's going to take a long
time I think this this is a undeniable
fundamental shift but I will remind
people when I worked on Azure version
one in 20
20089 and 15 years later cloud is only
still 30% deployed The World Is Still
70% on premises doesn't mean cloud is in
the right direction but these things
take time so first I would say the
notion of compliance copyright safety do
you say kind of have ethics and bias all
those considerations are as much
important as any Innovative demo or a
feature or exciting cool new thing you
can build with Gen but we are finding if
you look at type face which I did not
think when I started the company we just
hired a world-class Chief security
officer within the first year of the
company's existence I don't think that's
what most companies would have thought
they would need because the Enterprise
dialogues are not just about the
positive aspects of gen they're all
about tell me how you to indemnify any
IP copyright violations of these models
tell me how my IP is not going to leak
back into these public platforms and so
I do think if you're a startup back to
your question which I really think is
very insightful which is you may think
that is not an advantage an incumbent
has but that is actually a fundamental
Advantage incumbents have with these
Enterprise customers because they are
used to speaking that language they know
what the traps are they know what the
CIO cares about and they don't even have
to build any features they can just
freeze you out based on those aspects
which I think is again something
incumbents have a strength on but
startups can actually go there it is a
real investment we are investing a lot
in that in our engineering road map I
wish we didn't have to but if you're
selling to large companies that's kind
of part of the journey one other thing
the way gen space is going I think
incumbents are not going to stand still
this is too big an opportunity the
economic price is too big I don't think
it's going to be one winner take all as
much as open a I had an early start
amazing work every big player is going
to end up owning their share of this
pricee in the coming decade whether it's
Salesforce Adobe Microsoft Google
they're all they are not dummies and so
the question then becomes if you're a
startup can you just ignore all of their
Investments their strategies or can you
somehow capitalize their interest and
their excitement around this space like
the chief security officer within the
first nine months we struck deep
Partnerships with Microsoft Google and
Salesforce and and all three of them are
actually deep technology Partners but I
do think distribution is the new product
mode in the Gen you cannot just build a
product I know there is a lot of I'm
sure talks here around plg and how plg
you can just win with plg yes that's
great I happen to believe you're are
ultimately going to need distribution
advantages like data and these big
companies have massive distribution
advantages I'm just curious on the time
commitment that took to pull that off in
terms of how involved are you on the
Partnerships I think it's an area that a
lot of Founders haven't done and as they
think about what's outsourced like a BD
person on their team how involved you
were you talked about Fe of the largest
companies in software I'm sure it take a
bunch of your time yeah this one is
unfortunately unlik anything else in
startup it's all matter of trade offs
first of all I do think I was personally
the program manager of this partner
because at the end of the day when
you're a small company it's hard to get
access to these dialogues they're not
going to listen to they'll barely listen
to a founder and CEO they're not going
to listen to somebody within a company
that they don't know has any kind of
influence and yeah in my experience for
first couple of years you can't delegate
that which is unfortunately the real
risk because you are taking valuable
Cycles away from product building go to
market getting your own customers to
trying to land these somewhat
speculative Partnerships and if you
can't land them you've just wasted all
your time and energy so I do think you
have to be mindful of that for us for
the first 15 months I was the BD person
byself yeah amazing look thank you so
much thank you so much for joining us
and ab on behalf of light speed thank
you so much for your Insight thank you
both